In the real world, information is neither hierarchical nor
heterarchical. Meaningful order emerges non-arbitrarily from every
possible context. The same raw data will naturally reconfigure based on
viewpoint. For example, the cycle of life, death, and rebirth is
observed everywhere in nature. It takes on different nuances when
applied to the contexts of science, religion, life experience, etc..
These contexts can be further split apart into the natural science of
various creatures, the perspectives of different religions, and the life
experiences of people at different life-stages.

These contexts are real and no more arbitrary than the patterns they
illicit. Of course, exhaustively representing the context from which a
given ordered pattern is derived is impractical (and likely impossible).
A more pragmatic approach is to capture the resulting contextual
artifacts, distinguishing them from adjacent patterns by comparison.
This produces a web of pairs in a /nested heterarchy/. For the purposes
of note-taking, the resulting structures of information are entirely
emergent. There are three potential relationships between a note and
another comparison note: more specific, more general, or simply
adjacent.[fn:1] A more specific will possess context which is a superset
of its comparison note. A less specific note will likewise possess a
contextual subset of its comparison. An adjacent note will possess a
similar context which contains both omissions and additions to the
context of its comparison note.

A potential problem with this method is that it naturally favors
vertical relationships over horizontal ones. This does make sense, as
the relevance of vertical relationships is readily apparent. Horizontal
relationships are far more difficult to judge.

[fn:1] This organization is very similar to Ben Vallack's depth-driven
       approach to Zettelkasten note taking, which notably lacks a
       concept of adjacent notes:
       [[https://youtu.be/Ck4TriLMR4s?si=miwPlLnfVdkvILuP]]
